# Modifiers

Discover all the different features of `v-gsap`.

## `.from`, `.to`, `.fromTo`, `.call`

V-GSAP supports the above four main animation types.

- `.from` animates from a given state to its current state
- `.to` animates from the current state to a given to-state
- `.fromTo` combines both the above. It takes an Array of two states as value
- `.call` takes an arrow function as value and executes it
  - when used with `.whenVisible.`, it will automatically be handled like `.once.`

---

## `.whenVisible`
  - enables scrollTrigger. It defaults to from `top 90%` to `top 50%` and `scrub`
  - you can overwrite these properties in the value Object. In combination with `.fromTo`, put the overrides in the second state
  

### `.once`
allows to run the scrollTrigger only once
### `.markers`
Adds markers for debugging.

---

## `.parallax`
  - enables parallax effect for this element. Brings its own scrollTrigger, therefore doesn't need extra `.whenVisible.`.
  - Only works with a speed settings like:

### `.slower-<integer>`
### `.faster-<integer>`

Element scrolls slower or faster than the default scroll speed.

  - The value is a multiplier of 10% element height. E.g. `.slower-5` scrolls the element from +-50% to +-50% height.
  - If the value is left out, default is `5`. Meaning: `.slower` defaults to `.slower-5` (same with faster)

---

## `.stagger`

enables stagger for immediate children if placed on the parent. 
Duration can be overwritten in the value object.

---

## `.infinitely`

This sets the repeat of the timeline to `-1` to infinitely repeat the animation

---

## `.delay-<milliseconds>`

- can be added to delay the action for n milliseconds like `.delay-500.`
- any integer value will be accepted, like `.delay-1234.`

---

## `.whileHover`
lets you define a hover animation. By default, it reverses on leave.

### `.noReverse`

can be used to disable the reversing on leave

---

## `.draggable`

Allows the element to be draggable

### `.x`, `.y`, `.rotation`

allows to restrict the direction of the drag. 

### `.bounds` 

restricts the container. 
- If left empty (`.draggable.bounds`) it restricts the parent. 
- A querySelector can be passed 

```ts
v-gsap.draggable.bounds="'.someContainer'"
```

---

## `.animateText.`

Animates Text letter by letter

- It can either take a string as value like 
```ts
v-gsap.animateText="'Das ist ein Text'"
```
- Or if no value is given, it takes the inner textContent from the element 
```ts
<div v-gsap.animateText> Innerer Text </div>
```

### `.slow`, `.fast`

Changes the typing speed

---

## `.magnetic`

Makes an element be magnetically attracted to the cursor

### `.weak`, `.weaker`, `.stronger`, `.strong`

Modifies the strength of attraction. 
::callout
#summary
Order: weak -> weaker -> default (none) -> stronger -> strong
::

---

## `.mobile`
## `.desktop`
With these you can specify the viewport on which the animation shall take place.
- Window resizing is handled automatically.
- Breakpoint is `768px`
- You can combine both. Simply use both `v-gsap.mobile.` AND `v-gsap.desktop.` on the same element.

---

## `.preset`

You can define presets in `nuxt.config.ts` to make animations reusable.

[See details](/usage/presets)

---

