# Modifiers

Discover all the different features of `v-gsap`.

## `.from`, `.to`, `.fromTo`, `.call`

V-GSAP supports the above four main animation types.

- `.from` animates from a given state to its current state
- `.to` animates from the current state to a given to-state
- `.fromTo` combines both the above. It takes an Array of two states as value
- `.call` takes an arrow function as value and executes it
  - when used with `.whenVisible.`, it will automatically be handled like `.once.`

---

## `.whenVisible`

[See in Action](/playground#whenvisible)

- enables scrollTrigger. It defaults to from `top 90%` to `top 50%` and `scrub`
- you can overwrite these properties in the value Object. In combination with `.fromTo`, put the overrides in the second state

### `.fromInvisible`

- Adds `opacity: 0` as initial state and includes `opacity: 1` in `.to` or `.fromTo`.
- This prevents the element from being visible until the directive takes action. Especially needed for above-the-fold animations
- With this modifier you can create entrance animations without always repeating the opacity hassle.

### `.once`

allows to run the scrollTrigger only once

### `.markers`

Adds markers for debugging.

### Custom Scroller

If your content is wrapped in an artificial scroll container, use `{ [...], scroller: '<selector>' }` as a selector string inside the value object to override the default scroll container.
::alert{type="info"}
Note: You can also set this globally in the `nuxt.config.ts` [See details](/installation/configuration)
::

---

## `.parallax`

[See in Action](/playground#parallax)

- enables parallax effect for this element. Brings its own scrollTrigger, therefore doesn't need extra `.whenVisible.`.
- Only works with a speed settings like:

### `.slower-<integer>`

### `.faster-<integer>`

Element scrolls slower or faster than the default scroll speed.

- The value is a multiplier of 10% element height. E.g. `.slower-5` scrolls the element from +-50% to +-50% height.
- If the value is left out, default is `5`. Meaning: `.slower` defaults to `.slower-5` (same with faster)

---

## `.stagger`

[See in Action](/playground#stagger)

enables stagger for immediate children if placed on the parent.
Duration can be overwritten in the value object.

---

## `.infinitely`

[See in Action](/playground#infinitely)

This sets the repeat of the timeline to `-1` to infinitely repeat the animation

---

## `.delay-<milliseconds>`

[See in Action](/playground#delay)

- can be added to delay the action for n milliseconds like `.delay-500.`
- any integer value will be accepted, like `.delay-1234.`

::callout{type="warning"}
#summary
Note: Only works with `whenVisible` if used with `once`

#content
Since `whenVisible` is specifically timed via `start` and `end`, a delay only squeezes the actual animation towards `end`.

With `.whenVisible.once`, the animation is no longer "timed" but "triggered", therefore `.delay-` makes sense again
::

---

## `.whileHover`

[See in Action](/playground#whilehover)

lets you define a hover animation. By default, it reverses on leave.

### `.noReverse`

can be used to disable the reversing on leave

---

## `.draggable`

[See in Action](/playground#draggable)

Allows the element to be draggable

### `.x`, `.y`, `.rotation`

allows to restrict the direction of the drag.

### `.bounds`

restricts the container.

- If left empty (`.draggable.bounds`) it restricts the parent.
- A querySelector can be passed

```ts
v-gsap.draggable.bounds="'.someContainer'"
```

---

## `.animateText.`

[See in Action](/playground#animatetext)

Animates Text letter by letter

- It can either take a string as value like

```ts
v-gsap.animateText="'Das ist ein Text'"
```

- Or if no value is given, it takes the inner textContent from the element

```ts
<div v-gsap.animateText> Inner Text </div>
```

### `.slow`, `.fast`

Changes the typing speed

---

## `.magnetic`

[See in Action](/playground#magnetic)

Makes an element be magnetically attracted to the cursor

### `.weak`, `.weaker`, `.stronger`, `.strong`

Modifies the strength of attraction.
::alert{type="info"}
Order: weak <- weaker <- **default (none)** -> stronger -> strong
::

### `.refuse`

Will make the element try to flee from the cursor

---

## `.mobile`

## `.desktop`

[See in Action](/playground#desktop)

With these you can specify the viewport on which the animation shall take place.

- Window resizing is handled automatically.
- Breakpoint is `768px`
- You can combine both. Simply use both `v-gsap.mobile.` AND `v-gsap.desktop.` on the same element.

---

## `.preset`

[See in Action](/playground#preset)

You can define presets in `nuxt.config.ts` to make animations reusable.

[See details](/usage/presets)

---
